# Biometric-Security-System-to-start-Vehicles
## Project name:Biometric-Security-System-to-start-Vehicles
### Description : 
My project aims at designing a Biometric Security System to start vehicles. For owner identification, a fingerprint recognition-based identification system is used. Fingerprints are considered to be the best and fastest method for biometric identification. They are secure to use, unique for every person and does not change in one’s lifetime. Fingerprint recognition is a mature field to- day, but still identifying individual from a set of enrolled fingerprints is a time taking process. It was my responsibility to improve the fingerprint identification system for implementation on large databases e.g. of large number of vehicles etc. The issue of vehicle hijacking or car theft due to easy access to vehicle’s functional system can be reduced by using a biometric system. The starting of vehicle’s engine as the necessity of protection and access restriction in many luxurious assets is now very important. Biometric systems have in a long time served as a strong security system in many different applications and it will be implemented in automobile industry. Biometric system is a technological system that uses information about a person to identify such the person. It relies on specific data about unique biological trait in order to work effectively. This system involves running data through algorithms for a particular result, usually related to a positive identification of a user or other individuals. The signals are generated by the Arduino to appropriate module circuit. This system was implemented in ARDUINO UNO, LCD SCREEN, ONE CHANNEL RELAY MODULE, R305 FINGEPRINT SENSOR and comparison of our one to many identifications was done with existing identification technique i.e.one to one identification on same platform. 
